---
layout: post
title: Vulnerabilities found in Salt
---
Last week a critical vulnerability was discovered affecting Salt Master versions 2019.2.3 and 3000.1 and earlier. Salt users who have followed fundamental internet security guidelines and best practices are not affected by this vulnerability.

The vulnerability is easily exploitable if a Salt Master is exposed to the open internet.  Not a big deal.. right?  Well, it seems the vulnerability was found in approximately 6000 Salt Masters exposed to the Internet.  

It's amazing to me that it's 2020 and people still haven't learned.  This is how information security people stay gainfully employed. Time and time again you hear the mantra "Users are the biggest weakness".  Once again there is evidence to back this up.  

First rule of thumb is don't expose ANYTHING to the world unless you have good reason.  If you absolutely have no other choice, make sure you have taken the proper measures to harden your service and systems.  

Hardening activities can be classified into a few different layers:

* Server hardening
* Application hardening
* Operating System hardening
* Database hardening

The default configuration of most operating environments, servers, applications and databases are not designed with security as its main focus.  In fact, many things are still following practices from early years of the internet when nobody knew anything about security and the goal was to share information with the world!  The defaults concentrate more on usability and functionality. This implies that without hardening done, these information assets will be running a high level of security risks.

In most cases, very basic practices can help thwart nefarious actors and keep your data safe.

* Restrict who can directly log into your system and make them use _STRONG_ passwords.
* Use SSH keys secured with a passphrase if applicable.
* Use a bastion host or VPN to access critical systems.
* Stay on top of patching and updates.
* Rename default accounts and passwords.

Most of this should be common sense.  I guess Shodan has proven otherwise.

In response to [CVE-2020-11651](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-11651) and [CVE-2020-11652](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-11652), SaltStack has made updates available to resolve the issue.  
